Jehovah's Witnesses were proclaiming that the solution
to the world's problems rests with God's government.
On the other hand, the Churches repeatedly voiced support
for human governments.
Jehovah's Witnesses felt a responsibility
to make people aware of the position being taken
by their religious leaders.
In 1938, more than 10,000 people jammed into London's
Royal Albert Hall to hear a pointed lecture
by Joseph Rutherford, while millions more
heard this stinging message by radio.
Always outspoken, Rutherford invited his listeners
to face the facts.
The dictator of the totalitarian rule of Germany
has entered into an alliance with the Pope.
The indisputable facts are that the Roman Catholic hierarchy
has stooped wholly to political methods
to gain control of the world.
Rutherford pointed to the Church's role
in the rise of Adolf Hitler.
It's alliances with fascist regimes
and its push in many nations to make Catholicism
the state religion.
When World War II erupted in 1939,
nearly every organized religion
sent its members into the battle.
French and American Catholics killed German
and Italian Catholics.
British and American Protestants killed German Protestants.
Jehovah's Witnesses wanted to make it clear
that they were no part of this controversy.
The watchtower of November 1, 1939 reasoned,
how could a person who is devoted to God's Kingdom
favor one side or the other in a conflict
between factions of the world?